1.What is maven?
    Maven is a powerful project management tool that is based on POM (project object model). 
    It is used for projects build, dependency and documentation.

2.When to use maven?
   Maven is  used for Java-based projects, helping to download dependencies, which refers to the libraries or JAR files.
   The tool helps get the right JAR files for each project as there may be different versions of separate packages.

3.Define the problems without maven?
      without maven build process is hard , and also it will not allow transparent migration on new features. 
     it will not provide uniform build system.

4.Characterstics of maven?
   > Simple project setup that follows best practices.
   > Consistent usage across all projects.
   > Dependency management including automatic updating.
   > Instant access to new features with little or no extra configuration.

5.What is project management?
     Managing the source code testing the application and deploying the application and maintaining the application 
     all this process is called project management.
 
6. What is war files?
       The Maven WAR plugin is responsible for collecting and compiling all the dependencies,
        classes, and resources of the web application into a web application archive.

7. What is POM?
      Project Object Model(POM) Files are XML file that contains information related to the project and configuration information .
      Maven reads pom.xml file to accomplish its configuration and operations.

8.Default project structure of maven?
   Maven project structure defines a folder in order to store all resources and files needed by a web application.

9.What is the target folder?
     It is the maven default output folder

10. Command to generate default java project in interactive mode?
       mvn archetype:generate

11. How to install maven?
Step 1: Download Maven Zip File and Extract. Visit the Maven download page and download the version of Maven you want to install. ...
Step 2: Add MAVEN_HOME System Variable. ...
Step 3: Add MAVEN_HOME Directory in PATH Variable. ...
Step 4: Verify Maven Installation.  